So we're looking at adverbs and how they work when we are changing them for the different people.
Let's make a recap.
How would you say to contaminate?
Contaminar.
Good.
So how would you say it's contaminating?
Contamina.
Good.
So our key vowel for R verbs is A.
That's our key vowel.
We add a
to get you guys or they contaminate so how would that be?
Contaminan.
Contaminan, good
And we add an S to the HIIT form to get the U informal.
So U informal contaminate would be
Contaminas.
Now for er ear verbs for error verbs their key sound is e.
For this closed group of historic verbs, their key sound is e.
So, what do you think vender means?
Vender, what do you think that means?
Does it have anything to do with vent and ventilation?
No, it's not a T, it's a D.
It's a vent a vending.
Vending machine?
Yeah, yeah.
Good.
So what does it mean then, vendor?
What does the vending machine do?
It's a selling machine.
Or you might have heard street vendor as well.
So I sell or I'm selling.
Vendo.
I'm selling it.
Lo vendo?
Lovendo.
Good.
Is there anywhere else you can put that law?
Do you have the option here?
Well we can put it at the end if it's in its uh vender
State.
Exactly.
So now we can't put it anywhere else.
It has to go there.
Lovendo.
How would you say I'm selling them?
Loventas.
It's very important when you're making
Oh sorry.
It's very important when you're building the sentence that you take your time to understand who's doing what.
I sell, it's me doing the selling.
So I'm selling them.
The first bit you want to work out is I'm selling.
What's that?
Vendo.
Good.
And then you want to work out them.
I sell is vendo.
I sell them is Los Vendo.
Los Vendo.
Good.
So this process of dividing it into two thoughts
Just doing that is gonna make sure that you don't kind of get this salad.
Many times you will just switch them and you wanna say she has them, but you will say they have her.
You know, so it's very important to take your time to think about those bits separately
If you're talking about feminine things like I sell the houses, how would it be?
So still them we're gonna say, but we mean feminine things.
I sell them
Las Vendo.
Very good.
If you want to say actually, I sell or I'm selling the houses.
The word for the, we said it was la casa, also becomes plural.
Las.
Yes.
And the word kasa also becomes plural.
Cassas.
So I am selling the houses
Vendo las casas?
Yeah, I'm selling the houses.
Vendo las casas, or I'm selling them, and you mean the houses?
Las
Vendo.
Las Vendo.
Good.
The reason why we're looking at this with objects is because many people when they learn in Spanish they remember to change gender for people, but they kind of put all things in with law and loss.
And we kind of want to get out of that habit before it starts.
So we imagine the houses, we refer to them as laughs.
Is there a rule for which um objects are are female and which are not?
Well remember it's not strictly the object that has the gender, but the word, the noun in itself.
So feminine words end in A.
Words that end in A with a few exceptions are feminine words.
So kasa is feminine, la kasa, and it takes la.
Then there are other feminine endings.
So ion is a feminine ending
The administration is la administracion.
All of these words are going to be la.
The opinion is
La opinion.
The association.
La associación.
Good.
The celebration.
La celebración.
Good.
If a word ends in it in English, it's gonna be idad.
in Spanish most of the time.
This idat is a feminine ending as well.
So that shows us that all of these words are feminine words.
So for example, you have diversity, you change that it to idad.
Idad.
Diversidad.
Good.
The diversity
La diversidad good la nacionality la
La nacionalidad.
The same happens with the shun, but it becomes like an es or s in most of Spain.
La nacionalidad, la nacionalidad.
You could hear either.
The creativity.
La creatividad.
Very well pronounced.
You thought of the vowels very well.
La creatividad.
The electricity.
La electricidad.
These words are very nice as well for guessing other words.
Because if you have this rule, electricity becomes electricidad.
You can assume that electric is probably the same in Spanish as well, just something more Spanish or having a small change, even though there's no rule for that.
You can assume it.
So how do you think you would say electric
Electric.
Sound Spanish enough yet?
Electrico.
Yeah.
How would you say generosity?
Very good.
Generosidad.
How do you think you will say generous?
Have a play with it.
Genere Have a play with it and see what sits nice.
Generoso.
Yes, generoso.
For males.
For females, what do you think it would become?
Generosa.
Exactly how law becomes la, generoso becomes generosa.
It also can become plural as well if we're talking about more than one person, male or mixed group.
How would it sound?
Generosos.
Good.
And if I was just speaking about females?
Generosas.
Very good.
Community?
Comunidad.
Good.
The community?
La comunidad.
Feminine word.
Feminine ending.
How do you think you would say common?
Common comes from community, by the way.
Is it comuno?
Comono.
Comun.
So there's no way to know that.
Comuno or comuno?
Comun.
Commun with the accent on the end.
So there's no way to know that.
It's irregular.
There's no rule here.
So there's no irregularity.
So maybe you would say comuno and somebody would give you that feedback of commun and then you would realize.
But if you didn't take that guess, you wouldn't get the word.
We will learn a lot of vocabulary very quickly this way
How would you say opportunity?
Opportunidad.
How do you think you would say opportune?
Opportune.
You know we use this word in English like timely or convenient.
Opportun.
Opportuna?
Opportuno.
Or if you were talking about a feminine thing, opportuna.
Clarity?
Claridad.
And clear comes from clarity.
So you can look at claridad and you could probably guess how to say clear.
Clar.
But look at the Spanish word, claridad.
Clarido.
And the idad is the ending, isn't it?
Oh yes, claro.
Yes.
Claro.
So this is another good skill.
When you're guessing, you want to get rid of the ending.
This ending idad is what's making it a noun.
La claridad.
Claro.
And claro is used a lot.
conversationally other than meaning clear as an adjective it can also be used like of course claro claro claro you will hear this a lot
in conversation to show agreement or understanding of what you've said.
Claro.
Personality
Personalidad.
So we can assume that person is probably the same in Spanish as well.
When I say the same, similar.
So again it's guessing.
It could be
So what do you think it sounds like?
You will develop an intuition, especially through listening.
This is why listening is important as well, because this is what will really develop your intuition because you might have heard it before and not realize it.
I've heard of persona, so I'm guessing it's personal.
It's persona.
Oh persona.
It's a feminine word.
So remember it's the word that's feminine or masculine, not the thing.
So I am a persona.
Even though I'm a man, the word is uh feminine, not me.
Sincerity.
Sinceridad.
Sincere
Sincero.
So that's another example of a feminine ending, if it ends idad.
It's a feminine ending.
All of these words without exception are La.
If it ends Ion, that's a feminine ending.
All of these words without exception go with La.
Back to Vender.
How was Aisel?
Vendo.
I want to sell.
Quiero vender.
Good.
I want to sell it.
Where else could we put that law?
Lo quiero vender.
Good.
The er-eer verbs use as their principal sound e.
So whilst our verbs use their principal sound a
And we got organizar and then organisa for what does that mean, organisa?
He, she, or it
or you formal.
Good.
So organisa is a principal sound.
Organisan means when we add the n, what does it mean?
They.
They organize.
Or?
You you plural.
You plural.
So we have the end and we get they and you guys.
We add yes and we get u informal.
Organisas.
So a is our key sound for our verbs and for our ear verbs our key sound is e.
So to get he, she, it, and you fuman, we will take off our ending and put on e.
He sells, she sells, it sells, u fumel sell.
Vende.
How would you say he sells it or she sells it?
Lo vende.
Good.
We said that the word for something was algo.
Algo.
So you can say he's selling something, she's selling something, you're selling something.
Vende algo.
Good.
What do you think we would add on to vende to get the they form or the u plural form?
Venten.
So we're doing actually the same.
So we have a key vowel sound, which is e.
But then the rest we're doing the same what we did with the R verbs.
Venden.
They sell.
They're not selling.
No Venden.
They're not selling it.
No Lovenden.
Why aren't they selling it?
Porkinoloven.
Good.
Porkinolovenden.
Why aren't they selling it to me?
You just say why aren't they selling me it?
You took the personal one, me, first
The one that refers to the person, it goes first.
You just say, why aren't they selling me it?
So they are selling, how is they are selling?
Venden.
They are selling it.
Low vendon.
Good.
They are selling me it.
So they come together and the personal one comes first.
Me lovenden.
So whilst we have this complicated stuff happening in English, they sell it to me.
No, in Spanish we're just going to identify it's it and it's me.
Me is a personal one, so it's going to come first.
Me lovenden.
They're selling it to me.
They're not selling it to me.
Or they don't sell it to me.
No me lo venden.
Why don't they sell it to me?
Very good.
The word for us is nos.
Nos, the word for us.
So how would you say they are selling us something?
So something you know I'll go it's not one of these little words like me, lo not.
It's gonna come afterwards.
So they are selling us something
Nos venden algo.
Very good.
But if instead of saying they're selling us something and you you just wanted to say they're selling us it
They're selling it to us.
They're selling us it.
How would it be?
Nos lo venden.
Good
No slow vendin.
Good.
So there you have an as, you have an it, you have a they.
It could be like hugely complicated, no, if you just took that all as a package and tried to translate it.
But thinking about the verb first.
Then you're thinking about the other bits you need to put, then you get the sentence that you want confident that you have the sentence that you want.
How would you say they're not selling it to us?
No nos lo venden.
Good.
Why don't they sell it to us?